Over the last lectures, we learned a lot about controlled validation.
Now it's always nice to show validation errors next to the controls but maybe we also want to disable
the form submit button if we get any validation errors in our form.
Now the hard way of doing that would be to bind disabled here to $v.email.$error and so on, to disable
it
if, excuse me, not AND but
OR, to disable this
if any of our control groups has an error. The quicker way conveniently is to just access $v.$error
because that simply means if any of our validations here fails, then this error is set to true and this
will be disabled and maybe we even want to set it to invalid to disable it right from the start
and not only after the user started typing. If we now save this and we go back,
we see that right at the start, the button is disabled and I can't click it,
we can also confirm this in the console, can't click it, nothing happens.
I have to enter valid data into all of these fields,
so let me quickly do that,
accept and add hobbies
and only after I did this
I can click submit. Now
this simply fails because I submitted an email address which is already taken on the backend, we don't
have to care about this here,
the validation worked and this obviously is what this module is about. Though
this email address already taken
thing is interesting.
Wouldn't it be great if we warned the user right during validating his email address
whether this is a valid email address or not or if it is already taken?
Well let's dive into that and therefore into asynchronous validators in the next lecture.